- General guidelines
  - Push persistence to the edges
  - Separate commands (updates) from queries (reads)
  - BC's must own their own data store
- Separate workflows into two parts
  - Domain-centric part that contains business logic. Pure functions
  - An "edge" part that contains the I/O-related code
- The domain-centric functions should be easily unit testables while whole workflow may be rely to integration tests
- Injecting dependencies as params also help to improve testability
- If we need to make a decision based on a query we must keep domain parts pure, doing a sandwich with I/O in the edges
- If the workflow falls into a long-running one you can break into smaller pieces.
- Repository pattern is no longer needed when using pure functions and keeping I/O in the edges.

### Command-Query Separation (CQS) 

- With CQS every action receives input and data connection:
  - Reads return data
  - Mutations return nothing
- CQS states that reads should not be mixed with mutations
  - Functions that retrieve data should NOT change the state
  - Functions that have side effects should NOT return data


### Command-Query Responsibility Segregation (CQRS)  

- Use CQRS when you want to separate the objects that you use for reading ar writing, so they can grow independently.
- Queries --> read model
- Commands --> write model
- It can also be used on DBs, having one for write and one for read. Or tables for writing and views for reading


- In event sourcing the current state is not represented in a single object. Insteead, evey time there is a change to the state, an event representing the change is persisted.
- It works like a Version Control System.
- Bounded contexts must own their data storage
- A BC can change his storage without having to coordinate with other BCs
- No other system can directly access the date owned by the BC. Just by API
- Relational DBs work better with FP approach. Set-oriented operations (SELECT, WHERE) in a database are smilar to the list-oriented operations (map, filter) in fp languages
- To map choice types to tables there are two options:
  - All cases in one table. (Easier. Not null fields)
  - Each case has its own table. (More complexity, better constraints)
- To map nested types to tables:
  - If the inner type is a DDD value object, without his own identity, it should be stored "inline" with the parent data
  - If the inner type is a DDD entity, with his own identity, it should be stored in a separate table.
- To read from DB, and convert back the DB data to complex types, we will have `toDomain` functions that will de-serialize the data.
- One aggregate - One transaction
- To avoid overcost, and assuming that most times, things go well, don't use two-phase commit, just use reconcilliation process to detect inconsistency and compensating transactions to rollback a DB update.
- Always keep I/O at the edges