- Each pipe item is a step in the workflow.
- Represent each step as a standalone, stateless, without side effects function to test it independently
- Composing those functions is the next step, but some times isn't possible due tu differences in the output of the first with the input of the second.
- A way to define a pipeline is using function signatures:  
    ```js
        // type signature
        type ValidateOrder = (
        dependency1: CheckProductCodeExists
        ) => (
        dependency2: CheckAddressExists
        ) => (input: UnValidatedOrder) => ValidateOrder | ValidationError;

        const noop = () => {};

        // Create function with right params
        const validateOrder: ValidateOrder = dep1 => dep2 => input => new Error("");
        // Right usage
        validateOrder(noop)(noop)([])
        // Wrong usage
        validateOrder(["1"])(noop)([])
        // It will fail with this msg: Argument of type 'string[]' is not assignable to parameter of type 'Function'.


        // Create function bad params
        const validateOrderWrong: ValidateOrder = dep1 => dep2 => input => dep1 + input
        // TS will bring the issue: Operator '+' cannot be applied to types 'Function' and 'UnValidatedOrder'
    ```
- If helper functions are needed within a workflow, just define it's input/dependencies/ouput types and use it
- The adapter pattern is very commonly used in FP.
- Each workflow can return event. It's optional because it depends on the result.
- If there are more than one event with different types, it can be converted to a List or *Lifting* disparate types into a common type.
- To compose functions with different shapes, "monads" can be used or partial application
- To inject dependencies (in FP), use arguments instead if Dependency Injection. there are techniques like "Reader Monad" and "Free Monad"
- Workflows should reveive services/dependencies as input which makes it easily testeable as all deps are fakeable.
- The composition root function should be as close as possible tot he application's entry point
- If a function has too many dependencies is a signal that it needs to be splitted. If it's not possible, save all of them into a single record structure and pass it as one parameter.
- Order of organization in a workflow:
  - Import 3rd parties
  - Put type definitions (design)
  - Implementation of each step
  - Assemble the steps in the main function of the workflow
