## Intro

- There have to be good understanding in the communication chain. Domain expert - Developers
- Removing intermediaries like Business Analyst or Architect is a better solution to involve domain experts with the development process.
- The process consists in using a *shared mental model* understandable by developers, domain experts, code and other stakeholders.
- Benefits of aligning software model with business domain:
  - Faster time to market
  - More business value
  - Less waste
  - Easier maintenance and evolution
- DDD is not valid for all software types. Usually valid for enterprise business software.

## Creating a shared model

- Focus on business events and workflows rather than data structures
- Partition the problem domain into smaller subdomains
- Create a model of each subdomain in the solution
- Develop a common language: *Ubiquitous language*


## Business Events

"A business doesn't *have* data, it *transforms* it somehow"

- Event Storming is the main technique to discover and understand the domain events of a business.


## Business Activities

- Scenario: A goal that a **customer** wants to achieve.
- Use case: Detailed version of an scenario. Both are user-centric. 
- Business process: A goal that the **business** wants to achieve. Business-centric.
- Workflows: Detailed version of a business process.


## Documenting commands

- Commands are requests from something or somebody.
- Are used with the imperative: *"Do this for me"*
- A command might:
  - Fail
  - Succeed. Then, initiates a workflow that in turn creates corresponding Domain events.
- Example: Command "Make X happen" - Workflow made X happen - Domain event "X happened"
- An event can trigger a new command


## Partitioning the domain into subdomains

Domain definitions: 
    - An area of coherent knowledge. 
    - Is just which a domain expert is expert in! For example: "billings is what people in billing department do".

**Domains can overlap.**

## Creating a solution using bounded contexts

- A BC is a subsystem in our implementation. Each BC is a mini domain model in its own right. 
- Within a context we share a common language.
- Boundaries to reduce coupling between separate subsystems. We can tolerate some shared code to have an easier maintenance and less complexity.
- A domain in the problem space doesnt have to have a 1-1 relationship to a context in the solution space.


## Getting contexts right

Some guidelines to succeed in the art of defining boundaries:

- Listen to the domain experts
- Pay attention to existing team and department boundaries.
- Dont forget the bounded part of a BC. Set clear boundaries avoiding the too big ones.
- Design for autonomy. Two smaller BCs running independently are better that a big one mega-context.
- Design for friction-free business workflows.
- All models need to evolve


## Creating context maps

- A context map defines at a high level the way to communicate the interactions between contexts.
- The goal is not to capture every detail but to provide a view of the system as a whole.
- Upstream context: Has more influence over the format
- Downstream: Sometimes is inflexible so upstream needs to adapt or creating a translator for the communication


## Focusing on the most important BCs

- Some BCs are more important than others. These are the **core** domains, the ones that provides a business advantage and brings the money.
- Domains required but not core are called **supportive** and if they are not unique for the business are called **generic** which can be outsourced safely. 
- Contexts shouldn't be created all at once. You can start by the beginning to let the other domains or departments continue with existing processes without interruption.


## Creating an ubiquitous languange

- We shouldnt have things in our design that dont represent something in the domain experts model.
- Avoid technical terms as part of the design
- This language should be used everywhere in the project
- Each context will have a dialect of the language
- Creating a live document like wiki or page with all terms is a great idea


## Summarizing the concepts of DDD

- A **domain** is the area of knowledge associated with the problem we're trying to solve, or simply, that which a domain is expert in.
- A **domain model** is a set of simplifications that represents those aspects of a domain that are relevant. Is part of the solution space, while the domain that it represents is part of the problem space.
- The **ubiquitous language** is a set of concepts and vocabulary that is associated with the domain and shared by team members and code.
- A **bounded context** is a subsystem in the solution space with clear boundaries.
- A **context map** is a high-level diagram showing a collection of BCs and the relationships between them
- A **domain event** is a record of something that happened in the system. Described in the past tense.
- A **command** is a request for some process that happen and is triggered by a person or another event.