- Code should act as documentation. Readable by other devs and even non-devs. Use that way and UMLs are avoidable.
- Patterns of a typical domain:
  - Simple values
  - Combinations of values with *AND*
  - Choices of values with *OR*
  - Workflows
- Create wrappers to represent simple values and allow domain experts understand the meaning instead of setting them as *int* or *string* that may be confusing.
- Using types to identify objects will also allow us to be aware of problems. The following chunk will return always *false* while in vanilla JS without strict mode, it'd return *true*.

```js
type CustomerId = Number;
type OrderId = String;

let customerId: CustomerId = 12;
let orderId: OrderId = '12';

console.log("equals", customerId === orderId);
```

- Simple types should be constrained in some way, such as having to be in a certain range or match a certain pattern.
- You can model *undefined* types setting your best guess, an exception or directly using `undefined` until you have a better understanding of the domain. It will keep the code compilable.
-  In JS, choices are created like this: `type CustomerId = Number | String`
-  To model the *verbs* of the business process we use **functions**: `type ValidateOrder = UnvalidatedOrder => ValidatedOrder`
-  Or imagine we have more than one input, we can use currying: `type ValidateOrder = (arg1: String) => (arg2: Number) => void;` or create tuples.
-  To document *effects* in the function signature like non-happy-path outcome, use: `type ValidateOrder = (arg1: string) => Error | string` 
-  Objects with a **persistent** identity are called **Entities** and without are called **Value Objects**
-  If each item of two value objects are equal, the value objects are the same.
-  If any of identity component changes, but the identity is the same, that's an **entity**
-  Entities are unique, have a life cycle and are transformed from one state to another by various business process.
-  The distinction between value object and entity depends on the context.
-  To compare entities we use only one field (usually an id) instead of using an structural comparing like in value objects. To do it you can just compare the fields as JS doesnt allow operator overloading.
-  Immutability causes a ripple effect in a data structure, whereby changin noe low-level component can force changes to higher-level components too.

## Aggregates  
  
-  A collection of entities with some top level entity is called **Aggregate**, and the top-level entity is called **aggregate root**. For example: An *Order* that has several *OrderLines*, the aggregate comprises both while the root is the *Order* itself.
-  The aggregate acts as the consistency boundary, so the root knows if needs to apply anything after changing a low-level change. Is where the invariants are enforced.
-  To reference another entity, use an ID instead of the whole entity to avoid changes in the top-level entity any time that the referenced changes.
-  Aggregates are the basic unit of persistence. Each database transaction should work with a single aggregate and not include multiple aggregates or cross aggregate boundaries. Same happens to serializing.
-  An aggregate:
   -  Is a collection of domain objects that can be treated as a single unit whit the top-level entity acting as a root.
   -  All changes inside must be applied via the top level to the root.
   -  Is an atomic unit of persistence, database transactions and data transfer.


## Invariants in JS

There is a [NPM package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/invariant)


## Can types replace documentation?

**YES**