- Create pipelines to represent workflows or sets of subtasks.
- Each smaller pipe will do one transformation, this style of programming is called *transformation-oriented-programming*
- Each step is stateless without sode effects.
- The input of a workflow is associated with the command that initiates it.
- To serialize a DTO that contains several Comamnds comming from same channel (queue) use a *command handler*
- Creating several flags about states inside an entitiy has some problems:
  - Has state and would require a ton of conditional code
  - Complicates the design. 
  - Not clear which fields go with which flags.
- A much better approach is to create a new type for each state. It eliminates implicit states and conditional fields. Then create a top-level with choices
- This type of situations are very common. So use *states* as a general domain modelling tool. 
- Changes of state triggered by commands are kwown as **state machines**.
- Benefits of using state machines:
  - Each state can have different allowable behavior
  - All the states are explicitily documented
  - Its a design tool that forces to think about every possibility that could occur.
- Each state should have his own type.
- A command handler is represented by a function that accepts the entire state machine and returns a new version of it.
- [State machines lib in JS](https://github.com/davidkpiano/xstate)
- The type signature of the function will become the "interface" to implement later.
- Using currying for the function signature, dependencies go first, then input.
- Example of modelling each step of the workflow with types:
  ```js
    /**
     * Substep: "PriceOrder" =
    *   input: ValidatedOrder
    *   output: PricedOrder
    *   dependencies: GetProductPrice
    */

    type ProductCode = string;
    type Price = number;
    type ValidatedOrder = any;
    type PricedOrder = any;

    type GetProductPrice = (productCode: ProductCode) => Price;
    type PriceOrder = (
        getProductPrice: GetProductPrice
    ) => (validatedOrder: ValidatedOrder) => PricedOrder;
  ```

- Booleans are generally a bad choice in a design, though, because they are very uninformative. Use types instead:
  ```js
    type SendResult = Sent | NotSent
  ```
- The output of a workflow will be an array of events that will contained some info related with things done like `PricedOrder`, event would be `OrderCreated`
- To document side effects like calls to 3rd parties, I/O operations or requests outside the BC, we'll have the output affected with the `Result` and `Async` effects. 
- Result and Async effects are contagious, so, if a dependency returns any, the final output will be affected.
- To document an effect in the output of a function just do:
    ```js
        type PricingError = string;
        type PriceOrderResult = Number | PricingError;
        type PriceOrder = (getProductPrice:GetProductPrice) => (validatedOrder: ValidatedOrder) => PriceOrderResult
    ```
- Guidelines about dependencies:
  - For functions exposed in a public API, hide dependency information from callers
  - For functions used internally, be explicit about their dependencies
  - Dependencies of top-level functions should NOT be exposed
- For long-running workflows the solution can be storing the state between steps, using *sagas* or a *process manager*